# Pods

## Module Objectives

1. Deploy the sample app to Kubernetes
1. Deploy a pod using a custom image
1. Use exec to connect to deployed running container inside a pod

## Deploy the Sample App to Kubernetes

In this section, you will deploy the mysql database, `awsme` frontend and backend apps to Kubernetes. We will use Kubernetes manifest files to describe the environment that the `awsme` binary/Docker image will be deployed to. We will use the `awsme` Docker image that you built in a previous module.

### **Notes**
* If you want to change your pod after it has already been created, you must delete the running one first. Remember that pods in Kubernetes are immutable, meaning you cannot change them once they are running. Specifically, changing anything under the `spec` section is considered a change. You can use `kubectl delete pod <pod name>` to delete pods.

* To get a YAML representation of a Kubernetes object, use `kubectl get <object type> <object name> -o yaml`. For example: `kubectl get pod mypod -o yaml`. Note: this is not the original YAML used to create the object, but rather a YAML representation of the object as Kubernetes sees it. This is useful for comparing your YAML files to Kubernetes. Don't be surprised if there are a lot more fields used in the Kubernetes version.

* To get a more human-friendly set of information about objects use `kubectl describe <object type> <object name>`. For example: `kubectl describe pod mypod`. This command is useful for checking various fields on an object as well as the objects status. Describe also includes an event history of the object which is useful for debugging.

1. Create the manifest to deploy the `db` MySQL Pod. Save the following as `db.yaml`:

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Pod
    metadata:
      name: db
    spec:
      containers:
      - image: mysql:5.6
        name: mysql
        env:
        - name: MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD
          value: very-secret-password
        ports:
        - containerPort: 3306
          name: mysql
    ```

    > Note: `mysql` is a public image, available on hub.docker.com. If we do not specify a full registry url such as gcr.io it will check the default Docker Hub registry.

1. Deploy the `db` Pod to Kubernetes.

    ```shell
    kubectl apply -f db.yaml
    ```
1. List all Pods.

    ```shell
    kubectl get pod
    ```

    ```
    NAME      READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
    db        1/1       Running   0          17s
    ```

1. Find out the `db` Pod IP address.

    ```shell
    kubectl describe pod db | grep IP
    ```

    It is also useful to take a look at the full output of the `kubectl describe pod` command.

    You can also use the following command to find the IP address
    of the pod:
    ```shell
    kubectl get pods -o wide
    ```

1. Get your uploaded container image from  AWS ECR. This image will be used for our three tier application in our manifests.

    ```shell
    echo $AWS_ACCOUNT_ID
    export IMAGE=$AWS_ACCOUNT_ID.dkr.ecr.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/sample-app:1.0.0
    echo $IMAGE
    ```

1. Remember to start in your *~/environment/kubernetes-training/workspace* directory.
Create the manifest for the `backend` application. Save it as `backend.yaml` and deploy it to Kubernetes using `kubectl apply` command.

    ```yaml
    kind: Pod
    apiVersion: v1
    metadata:
      name: backend
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: backend
        image: <REPLACE_WITH_YOUR_OWN_IMAGE>
        command: ["sh", "-c", "app -mode=backend -run-migrations -port=8080 -db-host=<REPLACE_WITH_MYSQL_IP> -db-password=very-secret-password" ]
        ports:
        - name: backend
          containerPort: 8080
    ```

    > Important: Replace the image and the MySQL `db` pod's ip address.

1. Find out the `backend` Pod IP address just like how we did for the `db` Pod.

1. Create the manifest for the `frontend` application. Save it as `frontend.yaml` and deploy it to Kubernetes using `kubectl apply` command.

    ```yaml
    kind: Pod
    apiVersion: v1
    metadata:
      name: frontend
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: frontend
        image: <REPLACE_WITH_YOUR_OWN_IMAGE>
        command: ["app", "-mode=frontend", "-backend-service=http://<REPLACE_WITH_BACKEND_IP>:8080", "-port=80"]
        ports:
        - name: frontend
          containerPort: 80
    ```

    > Important: Replace the image and the `backend` ip address.

1. Find out the `frontend` pod IP address.

1. Deploy one more pod to use it for checking from inside cluster. Use this pod pod definition and save it as test-pod.yaml in your working directory 

   ```yaml
   apiVersion: v1
   kind: Pod
   metadata:
     name: test-pod
   spec:
     containers:
     - name: sise
       image: mhausenblas/simpleservice:0.5.0
       ports:
       - containerPort: 9876
   ```


    ```shell
    kubectl  apply -f test-pod.yaml
    ```
 
Pods have only cluster-internal IP addresses and are not available from the outside by default.

1. Use [exec](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/debug-application-cluster/get-shell-running-container/) command to go inside the pod. 

    ```shell
    kubectl exec test-pod -it /bin/sh
    ```

1. From the pod try to connect to both the `backend` and `frontend` using curl.

    ```shell
    curl <backend-ip>:8080
    curl <frontend-ip>
    ```


## Optional Exercises

### Deploy a pod using different image.

Create a pod that runs [nginx](https://hub.docker.com/_/nginx) image. Try to access nginx.

### Manually connect to mysql DB from app pod

1. Go inside the backend pod. Use [exec](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/debug-application-cluster/get-shell-running-container/) command to do that
1. Use `mysql-client` package to install [mysql](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/mysql.html)
1. Use `mysql` to connect to the DB.

---

## **IMPORTANT CLEANUP**
Run the following to cleanup your environment

```shell
~/environment/kubernetes-training/starting-points/cleanup.sh pods
```
